Insecure File Permissions:
Serviio Case Study
A common way to elevate
privileges on Windows
is to exploit insecure file permissions
on services that run as system.
For example, a software developer creates
a program that runs as a Windows service,
but during the installation,
the developer does not secure
the permissions of the program,
allowing everyone full read
and write access to it.
As a result, the program could
be replaced with a malicious one.
When the service is restarted
or the machine is rebooted,
the malicious file will be
executed with SYSTEM privileges.
This type of vulnerability exists
on our Windows client.
Let’s take a look at the
vulnerability and exploit it.
In one of the previous sections we showed
how to list running services with tasklist
Alternatively, we could use PowerShell.
We will use the Get-WmiObject cmdlet with
the win32_service WMI class,
pipe the output to Select-Object to
display the fields we are interested in,
and use Where-Object to
display running services.
Based on this output, the
Serviio service stands out
because it is installed in the
Program Files directory.
Software in the Program Files
directory is user-installed
and the software developer
controls the directory structure
and permissions of the software.
Therefore, it is more prone to
this type of vulnerability.
Next, let’s enumerate the permissions on
the target service with the icacls utility
This utility will output the
service’s Security Identifiers
followed by a permission mask, which is
defined in the icacls documentation.
We can run icacls passing the full
service name as an argument.
As suspected, the permissions
associated with the
ServiioService.exe executable
allows any user on the system
full read and write access to it.
This is a serious vulnerability.
In order to exploit this
type of vulnerability,
we can replace ServiioService.exe
with our own malicious
binary and then trigger it
by restarting the service or
rebooting the machine.
We’ll demonstrate this
attack with an example.
This C code will create
a user named “evil”
and add that user to the
local Administrators group.
First, we’ll cross-compile the code on
our Kali machine with mingw,
using -o to specify the name
of the executable.
We can now transfer it to our target,
and replace the original
erviioService.exe binary
with our malicious copy.
In order to execute the binary,
let’s try to restart the service.
Unfortunately, we dont have permissions
to stop the Serviio service.
This is expected because
administrative users
are usually responsible
for managing services.
Since we do not have permission
to manually restart the service,
we must try something else.
If the service is set to “Automatic”,
we may be able to restart the service
by rebooting the machine.
Let’s check the start options of
the service with the help of wmic.
This service will automatically
start after a reboot.
Let’s use the whoami
command to determine if our
current user has the rights
to restart the system:
The output shows that our user has
been granted shutdown privileges
and we should be able to
reboot the system.
The Disabled state only means
the privilege is not enabled
for the running process,
in our case, whoami.
It has not requested
and is therefore not using
the SeShutdownPrivilege privilege.
If the SeShutdownPrivilege
was not listed,
we would have to wait for the
victim to manually start the machine,
which would be much
less convenient.
Let’s go ahead and reboot with /r,
in zero seconds.
Now that the machine has rebooted,
we should be able to log in
to the target machine using
the new “evil” user account.
Once logged on,
we can confirm that the evil
user is part of the local
Administrators group with
the net localgroup command.
Very Nice. We used the insecure file
permissions to replace the service program
with our own malicious one that gave us
an Administrative account on the system.